@misc{5,
  author = {Aggelos Gkiokas and Alastair Porter and Wim Klerkx},
  title = {Deliverable 8.4 Data Management Plan V1},
  abstract = {This document is the 1st version of the deliverable D8.4 - Data Management Plan. The aim of this
deliverable is to provide information on how the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable)
data requirement will be satisfied in the data created during TROMPA.
This deliverable contains the Data Management Plan (D8.4), a deliverable that belongs to WP8 of
the project, devoted to project coordination. This document contains its first version (M6) and is
designed as a living document that will be updated along the project, in M18 and M36 respectively.
We describe here the procedure used in the project to handle the data collected and generated
during the project, following the Horizon 2020 online manual.
We start by summarizing the main characteristics of TROMPA data, having in mind the main goal
of TROMPA, indicated in its acronym, i.e. to enrich existing online music public-domain archives. We
first specify the considered music data types (audio, video, music scores, text and images), formats
(with an emphasis on open and standard formats) and sources (external sources, data from
consortium and associated partners, data generated by TROMPA technologies in WP3, crowd
contributions in WP4 and additional relevant sources). We then specify the target criteria for size,
reusability and the link of data with the different TROMPA use cases and user communities. This
allow us to define a list of existing open repositories our project will link and contribute to.
The data generated during the TROMPA project will fulfil the FAIR standard: it will be Findable,
Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable. We describe in this deliverable how the TROMPA
consortium will work to fulfil this FAIR criteria, providing specific details and indications for
discoverability, identifiability, naming, versioning, availability as open data, documentation, and
re-usability. We also discuss about licensing, software tools, quality assurance and conditions to
preserve it in the future. In addition, we consider the required allocation of resources for managing
that, estimating the cost, resources, responsibilities and potential value for long term preservation.
Moreover, we discuss about data security and the ethical aspects linked to data.
This methodology is for the moment wide and comprehensive in order to be refined during the
project according to the precise definition and evolution of the use-cases and the work carried out in
the different work packages.},
  year = {2018},
  issn = {TR-D8.4-Data Management Plan v1},
  url = {https://trompamusic.eu/deliverables/TR-D8.4-Data_Management_Plan_v1.pdf},
}
