TY - RPRT
AU - Cynthia Liem
AU - David Baker
AU - Ioannis Samiotis
AU - David Weigl
AU - Nicolás Gutiérrez
AU - Juan Gómez
AU - Maria Pascual
AU - Emilia Gómez
AB - This deliverable contains the mid-term evaluation report for the prototypes developed in the context of TROMPA’s five use cases. The deliverable is a continuation of the work reported in all earlier deliverables of WP6, which moved from mock-ups testing (D6.1), through a global planning (D6.2) for five use case specific prototypes, of which the technical status has been documented in D6.3-6.7. Currently, we present the user-facing evaluation results involving these prototypes. Due to the COVID-19 crisis, conducting user studies has turned out more challenging than initially foreseen: user studies and prototype showcases could not be performed in in-person setups, and overall, scheduling under remote conditions has become more uncertain. This required adaptations in the participant recruitment and study setup strategies, as already discussed in D6.3-6.7. As a consequence, with approval of our PO, this deliverable is published 2 months later than originally foreseen. For each of the use cases, we report on the current status, user-facing evaluation outcomes, and future prospects in a standardised reporting structure.

N2 - This deliverable contains the mid-term evaluation report for the prototypes developed in the context of TROMPA’s five use cases. The deliverable is a continuation of the work reported in all earlier deliverables of WP6, which moved from mock-ups testing (D6.1), through a global planning (D6.2) for five use case specific prototypes, of which the technical status has been documented in D6.3-6.7. Currently, we present the user-facing evaluation results involving these prototypes. Due to the COVID-19 crisis, conducting user studies has turned out more challenging than initially foreseen: user studies and prototype showcases could not be performed in in-person setups, and overall, scheduling under remote conditions has become more uncertain. This required adaptations in the participant recruitment and study setup strategies, as already discussed in D6.3-6.7. As a consequence, with approval of our PO, this deliverable is published 2 months later than originally foreseen. For each of the use cases, we report on the current status, user-facing evaluation outcomes, and future prospects in a standardised reporting structure.

PY - 2020
TI - Deliverable 6.8 - Mid-term evaluation
UR - https://trompamusic.eu/deliverables/TR-D6.8-Mid_Term_Evaluation.pdf
ER - 
